In this clip, we're going to look at Route 53,
the key service for any cloud provider, for any network really,
DNS.
So let's take a look at a bit of an overview of the product.
Number 1, it's worldwide redundancy with an anycast network,
which means the responsibilities of communication between the nodes
and DNS ensures that the optimal root is going to be utilized to
ensure that you have very fast response,
100% availability SLA, they expect it to be up all the time.
Now we can do some pretty advanced routing, latency-based routing.
So, I'm running applications in multiple regions and I'm using Route 53,
and customers wanting to access those applications,
where do they get them through, ah yeah,
the edge location,
and Route 53 will route the end user to the region that's got the best latency.
Now the Geo DNS that allows you to balance the load by taking the requests,
and again based on where are you in the world,
geographically, where was that request sent from?
I'm going to send you to this endpoint, it's closer.
And there's actually three levels of granularity.
It can either be continent, country, or by state.
We also have weighted round-robin,
and so we can assign weights to our address records to say,
to which server is going to do the response?
Now changes made to Route 53 records are typically updated within 60 seconds.
Now it may take longer depending on the internet,
the world, what's going on,
but this is where this 100% availability SLA comes into play,
and this really means that we're trying to hit this level,
and if we don't, then you can get a credit,
a service credit.
Lastly, anything I do, the API calls monitored via CloudTrail.
So let's take a look at the operation of Route 53.
Ultimately,
it's providing the location of entry to your
service at AWS through the quickest, the closest edge location.
So,
if I'm talking directly to an EC2 instance that has
either a public or private IP address, that system is built,
Route 53 is going to know about it.
It will be updated on the IP addresses that are assigned to the instance,
and therefore it knows where the instance is.
Route 53 also works hand in hand with elastic load balancers.
Health checks, all health checks are sent to all Route 53 servers.
So if I have resources behind the elastic load balancers,
Route 53 is involved with the elastic load balancers and
the health checks of my instances.
Now there's other services that Route 53 is obviously involved with,
including the edge location services that we've talked about.
Now we've used this term edge location service a couple of times,
but specifically on the edge, a typical AWS service is an S3 bucket,
so your S3 bucket can be made public.
The name conventions of S3 buckets follow DNS format.
In front of your buckets, you could have CloudFront content distribution.
How do I find content outside of Amazon as a client?
DNS, Route 53, Route 53 directing me to the closest caching server,
that's the aspect of CloudFront behind the caching server.
Oh my S3 bucket,
or maybe an EC2 instance that is serving content off an EBS volume.
So we can register domain names.
The automatic configuration of DNS goes on all the time.
The registered partner for Amazon Route 53 is Gandi.
Now the primary job of Route 53 is a DNS service,
where it's translating domain names into IP addresses,
the same as DNS does anywhere.
And as mentioned, we have health check integration with CloudWatch,
where we can check the health of our resources,
whether they're instances or containers.
We can also take advantage of Route 53 monitoring services.
For example, we can enable health checks on resources at AWS,
and these are configured with CloudWatch metrics,
so for example, web applications or endpoints can be monitored,
and the health checks are enabled upon the alias
records that are registered in Route 53.
We can also take this a step further and say,
well we'll do DNS failover,
and we'll associated a health check with a resource record set,
in fact, any resource record set found within Route 53.
So, we set up an active-passive failover scheme,
so we say in the primary record, this is the resource,
that system doesn't seem to be up based on the health check on the response.
What's the secondary record?
Let's failover to that resource at the secondary record location.
Now one of the interesting options that we can get through the console
is the Route 53 traffic flow troubleshooting tool.
So if we're using lots of resources at Amazon,
and they all have records at DNS,
it can be kind of challenging to manage this complex
configuration that you may have defined.
So one of the neat things about traffic flow is
just what the name is suggesting,
that you can set up policies to control traffic flow
between your resources at AWS.
So it's ultimately giving me global traffic management
for application access for my clients.
Now if I want to manage access to my applications,
I can also define this based on the latency,
the geography, and the endpoint health.
So I create policies for my route traffic based on the constraints,
based on my resources, based on the location of my resources.
So I can use the visual policy builder within traffic flow
to create a configuration that utilizes,
for example, geolocation routing,
to route all the users from the states to a specific
endpoint to buy coffee at Wired Brain,
and then use latency routing to route all the other users in Europe to send
them to another region based on the latency between those users and the
different regions where my application is hosted.
I could also use failover routing to route users to a
primary load balancer within each region.
So in effect,
I'm going to create what's called a rule set to route my user
requests to the endpoint for my applications,
and there's no charge for creating a traffic policy, it's really trying to help us out in setting up the complexities of DNS.